# Installing, Building, and Using wxAutoExcel


## Table of Contents

1 Installation
2 Building wxAutoExcel
3 Building applications using wxAutoExcel

## 1 Installation

The first step, is to download the source archive or clone the code
from GitHub and put it in any directory. If at all possible, please
avoid a directory name with spaces in its name, as this can cause problems.
In the following text this directory will be referred to as `WXAUTOEXCELDIR`.

## 2 Building wxAutoExcel

wxAutoExcel supports building with CMake, using FindwxWidgets CMake
module to find wxWidgets installation to use.

Before building wxAutoExcel, you can change some of its compile-time
settings in *WXAUTOEXCELDIR\include\wx\wxAutoExcel_setup.h*. These settings
are mostly useful if you don't plan to use some of wxAutoExcel features
such as Shapes or Charts and wish to minimize the size of the wxAutoExcel
(dynamic) library.

CMake 3.14 or newer is required. As usual, an out-of-source build is strongly
recommended. wxAutoExcel can be built with Microsoft Visual C++ or MinGW
(GCC or clang) in Debug and/or Release configurations.

### Build options

- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_SHARED`: whether to build static (lib) or shared (dll) wxAutoExcel library. `BOOL`, defaults to the value of `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_LINK_WX_SHARED`: whether to link to wxWidgets dynamically. When linking  dynamically, the `wxWidgets_LIB_DIR` CMake variable should be set to wxWidgets dll folder and not the lib folder.  `BOOL`, defaults to the value of `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_USE_STATIC_RUNTIME`: whether to link to the static CRT (and other compiler libraries). This setting must match the setting used when building wxWidgets (`wxBUILD_USE_STATIC_RUNTIME`) and cannot be used when building wxAutoExcel in the shared mode or linking to wxWidgets dynamically. `BOOL`, defaults to `OFF`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_USE_PRECOMPILED`: whether to use precompiled headers (requires CMake v3.16+). `BOOL`, defaults to `ON`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_VENDOR`: Short string identifying the library builder (used in DLL name). `STRING`, defaults to `custom`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_INSTALL`: whether to install wxAutoExcel to folder set in `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`.  `BOOL`, defaults to `OFF`.
- `wxAutoExcel_BUILD_BUILD_SAMPLES`: whether to build the included samples. `BOOL`, defaults to the value of `PROJECT_IS_TOP_LEVEL`.

Static or import libraries will be built in the *WXAUTOEXCEL-BULIDDIR/lib*
folder. Dynamic libraries and samples' executables will be built in the
*WXAUTOEXCEL-BULIDDIR/bin* folder. When using a multi-config generator, the bin
folder contains subfolders for the individual configurations (e.g., Debug).
The same hierarchy is followed for the folder with installed wxAutoExcel
(*WXAUTOEXCEL-INSTALLDIR*) but subfolders for configurations are not used.

### Library naming scheme

The names of static and import libraries include version and indication whether
this is a Debug configuration (those have *d* after the version number).
The names of shared (DLL) libraries include more detailed version and provide also
compiler, architecture, and Vendor identification. For example this is how the file
names will look for Debug configuration of version 2.0.0 with Vendor set to default
*custom*.
#### For MSVC 2022 x64
*Import library:* wxAutoExcel20d.lib
*DLL:* wxAutoExcel200d_vc143_x64_custom.dll
#### For GCC 13.2.0 x86
*Import library:* libwxAutoExcel20d.a
*DLL:* wxAutoExcel200d_gcc1320_x32_custom.dll
#### For clang 17.0.0 x64
*Import library:* libwxAutoExcel20d.a
*DLL:* wxAutoExcel200d_clang1700_x64_custom.dll

## Building applications using wxAutoExcel

The make/project files generated by CMake show which flags 
should be used when building applications using wxAutoExcel.

If you are using CMake for your project MyProject, you can do something like this

    target_link_libraries(MyProject PRIVATE wxAutoExcel ${wxWidgets_LIBRARIES})

Independently of the compiler and IDE you are using you need to do the
following to use wxAutoExcel. In addition to the standard wxWidgets-related
and other settings, you need to: 
- Add `WXAUTOEXCELDIR/include` or `WXAUTOEXCEL-INSTALLDIR/include` to the compiler include path.
- Add `WXAUTOEXCEL-BUILDDIR/lib/[Debug or Release]` or `WXAUTOEXCEL-INSTALLDIR/lib` to the libraries path.
- If you are using the DLL build of wxAutoExcel, add `WXUSINGDLL_WXAUTOEXCEL`
  to the preprocessor definitions.
- Finally, add the wxAutoExcel library (see the Library Naming Scheme chapter)
  to the list of libraries to link with.
